---
title: "Week 8 writing"
date: 2021-03-15
---

week 8 writing
Heading: Weekend Drinking
Background & Aim:
When analyzing a case study using Poisson data, there might be many meaningless zeros in the
data. The case study was based survey of students on campus to find out the alcoholic
consumption during the weekend. The aim of the study was to find out what proportion of
students never drink, and what factors are related to the drinking.
Methods:
The study included 77 observations who were likely first year students and recorded the
parameters of sex and living status.
The study first fit a Poisson model with the covariates as sex and off.campus and response as
count of alcoholic drinks. Because of the problem of non-drinkers, a zero-inflated Poisson
regression model would be better. Then, they fit a ZIP model with covariate as sex plus
off.campus correlated and firstyear to distinguish drinkers and non-drinkers.
Results:
After adjusting to use the ZIP model, the effect of sex and off.campus are significantly positive
(sexm, p= 5.634e-09; off.campus, p= 4.333e-02), which means both covariates have association
with the students’ alcoholic drinking. After some calculations, the estimated chance that a firstyear student is a non-drinker is 63%.
Conclusion:
1. The ZIP model was better on case study that have two different groups of zeros. Showed by
the Vuong test, the zero-inflation model is better.
2. We can conclude that when dealing with a mixture of zeros, ZIP model would be more fitting
that a simple Poisson model.
3. More research on weekend drinking could be established to get a better result since this case
study had many limitations. For example, the time period was not detailed, and different type
of alcohol would cause difference in counts. 
